h1. Elasticsearch with grouping support

The patches in this repository allow you to build elasticsearch with grouping support for your own tests/live deployments.

Please note, that we did not write this stuff. All credits for this go to Martijn van Groningen. You can find the repository with the grouping support at https://github.com/martijnvg/elasticsearch-with-local-grouping - but it is forked from an old elasticsearch and seems not to be up-to-date.

If you need some documentation, you can find it in the README of Martijns repository as well. We will provide some uses of the java client as soon as possible.

h2. Building your own elasticsearch binary with grouping support

* git clone git://github.com/lusini/elasticsearch-grouping-patches.git
* cd elasticsearch-grouping-patches
* ./build-patched-elasticsearch.sh
* ls -l build/dist

h2. Keeping it up to date

In case the repo here is not up to date you can easily try to have a current version of elasticsearch yourself

* Go to download and download a tag (not a binary release) <code>wget --no-check-certificate https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/zipball/vX.YY.Z</code>
* Unzip the source and create a copy from that in a similar named directory with an ".orig" suffix
* Try to apply the last patch from the patches/ directory: <code>patch -p1 -i /path/to/patches/es-grouping-X.YY.Z.patch</code>
* If the patch did not apply, check the conflicting files and change the source appropriately. When you are finished, create a new patch for the version by running
  <code>diff -Nur es-directory.orig es-directory > /path/to/patches/es-grouping-X.YY.Z.patch</code>
* Build a custom version of elasticsearch
  * Before 0.19: <code>gradle clean zip</code>
  * Since 0.19:  <code>mvn package -DskipTests</code>


